content/en/areas/pendadhaktylos/garga-suyu.md, before:

---
author: Rustam Safin
title: Pendadhaktylos - Garga Suyu
date: 2023-04-10
description:
keywords: ["crag"]
---

![Image](/garga-suyu/garga-suyu.jpg)

Oldest sports crag in northern Cyprus. One of the top three sports crags on the island with many quality routes. Not the most peaceful location (due to the main road, and incessant quarry traffic). But this is less distracting than it first seems. Nice views over the five fingers outcrop.

# Directions

From Nicosia (north side) take the main highway heading towards Famagusta (mind the speed cameras - they are 'unforgiving'). Follow the highway for around 12km. Take the turnoff one after the university, and follow the road north. You know you have the correct one if you pass an army camp after 3km (speed camera) then after the road bends right a large quarry. Keep on this road as it bends left and heads sharply uphill. Follow several large lorries full of aggregate as they crawl up the road at a (slow) walking pace - or maybe simply overtake them 😁. At the top of the hill the large Buffavento resaurant is on your right. Continue on the road as it heads down toward Girne/Kyrenia. The crag should be obvious on the left after around 4km. There is a 'picnic' area around 100m from the start of the climbs that you can park in (careful if you have low ground clearance). Follow the obvious small track to the climbs (less than 5 minutes walk).

# Aspect

Faces North(ish) Generally in the shade from mid-morning. A good summer crag. Can be cold in the winter, especially if windy.

# Google Maps

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m17!1m12!1m3!1d4113.212002743477!2d33.449726776902736!3d35.28992167032453!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m2!1m1!2zMzXCsDE3JzIyLjkiTiAzM8KwMjYnNjAuMCJF!5e1!3m2!1sen!2s!4v1681130090842!5m2!1sen!2s" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

[Click to locate on Google Maps](https://goo.gl/maps/FeCN4bMUmWSbgSw28)

# Notes
Snakes have, on occasion, been found resting on ledges on routes. Worth bearing in mind....
Routes listed from left to right, in the order you come across them walking in. No pictures yet (sorry!)
More information is available on the [UKC web-site](https://www.ukclimbing.com/logbook/crags/garga_suyu-9288/).

# Route Summary

42 sport (5c to 8b)

| #   | Route Name                | Grade | Length |
| --- | ------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| 1   | Salamis                   | F7b   | 0m     |
| 2   | Lenger Project            |       | 0m     |
| 3   | Richard Lionheart Project |       | 0m     |
| 4   | Kamyoncu                  | F7b+  | 0m     |
| 5   | Hollybeef                 | F6c   | 0m     |
| 6   | Hermafrodit               | F6c   | 0m     |
| 7   | Zwanderful Tonight        | F6b+  | 0m     |
| 8   | Karpaz Esekleri           | F7a+  | 0m     |
| 9   | Karpaz Esekleri Direct    | F7b   | 0m     |
| 10  | Drama Queen               | F6b+  | 0m     |
| 11  | Golyandro                 | F5c   | 0m     |
| 12  | Marshmellow               | F5c   | 0m     |
| 13  | Hellim                    | F5c   | 0m     |
| 14  | Hellim Extension          | F7b   | 0m     |
| 15  | Gufi                      | F6a+  | 0m     |
| 16  | Mastika                   | F6b   | 0m     |
| 17  | Babavura                  | F6c   | 0m     |
| 18  | Ela                       | F8b   | 0m     |
| 19  | Anorit                    | F6a   | 0m     |
| 20  | Rapunzel                  | F6a+  | 0m     |
| 21  | Riviera                   | F6b+  | 0m     |
| 22  | Molehiya                  | F6a   | 0m     |
| 23  | Gabbar                    | F7a   | 0m     |
| 24  | Highway to Heaven         | F6a   | 0m     |
| 25  | Kupdusen                  | F5c   | 0m     |
| 26  | Limasollu Naci            | F6a   | 0m     |
| 27  | Baragadi                  | F7a+  | 0m     |
| 28  | Monobadi                  | F7a   | 0m     |
| 29  | Bafidi                    | F6c+  | 0m     |
| 30  | Kedira                    | F6c   | 0m     |
| 31  | Ferma                     | F7a+  | 0m     |
| 32  | Mardo                     | F6b   | 0m     |
| 33  | Marmot                    | F5c   | 0m     |
| 34  | Rolling Stones            | F6b   | 0m     |
| 35  | Garavolli                 | F6c+  | 0m     |
| 36  | Casablanca                | F6b   | 0m     |
| 37  | Solina                    | F7a+  | 0m     |
| 38  | Orfoz                     | F7c   | 0m     |
| 39  | Zurnaci                   | F6c+  | 0m     |
| 40  | Gindirik                  | F6b   | 0m     |
| 41  | Horoz                     | F6a+  | 0m     |
| 42  | Gurkuda                   | F5c   | 0m     |

Commit message:

Add some crags from Northern Cyprus.

content/en/areas/pendadhaktylos/garga-suyu.md, after:

---
author: Rustam Safin
title: Pendadhaktylos - Garga Suyu
date: 2023-04-10
description:
keywords: ["crag"]
---

![Image](/garga-suyu/garga-suyu_001.jpg)

Oldest sports crag in northern Cyprus. One of the top three sports crags on the island with many quality routes. Not the most peaceful location (due to the main road, and incessant quarry traffic). But this is less distracting than it first seems. Nice views over the five fingers outcrop.

# Directions

From Nicosia (north side) take the main highway heading towards Famagusta (mind the speed cameras - they are 'unforgiving'). Follow the highway for around 12km. Take the turnoff one after the university, and follow the road north. You know you have the correct one if you pass an army camp after 3km (speed camera) then after the road bends right a large quarry. Keep on this road as it bends left and heads sharply uphill. Follow several large lorries full of aggregate as they crawl up the road at a (slow) walking pace - or maybe simply overtake them 😁. At the top of the hill the large Buffavento resaurant is on your right. Continue on the road as it heads down toward Girne/Kyrenia. The crag should be obvious on the left after around 4km. There is a 'picnic' area around 100m from the start of the climbs that you can park in (careful if you have low ground clearance). Follow the obvious small track to the climbs (less than 5 minutes walk).

# Aspect

Faces North(ish) Generally in the shade from mid-morning. A good summer crag. Can be cold in the winter, especially if windy.

# Google Maps

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m17!1m12!1m3!1d4113.212002743477!2d33.449726776902736!3d35.28992167032453!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m2!1m1!2zMzXCsDE3JzIyLjkiTiAzM8KwMjYnNjAuMCJF!5e1!3m2!1sen!2s!4v1681130090842!5m2!1sen!2s" width="600" height="450" style="border:0;" allowfullscreen="" loading="lazy" referrerpolicy="no-referrer-when-downgrade"></iframe>

[Click to locate on Google Maps](https://goo.gl/maps/FeCN4bMUmWSbgSw28)

# Notes
Snakes have, on occasion, been found resting on ledges on routes. Worth bearing in mind....
Routes listed from left to right, in the order you come across them walking in.

# Route Summary

[UKClimbing](https://www.ukclimbing.com/logbook/crags/garga_suyu-9288/)

42 sport (5c to 8b)

| #   | Route Name                | Grade | Length |
| --- | ------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| 1   | Salamis                   | F7b   | 0m     |
| 2   | Lenger Project            |       | 0m     |
| 3   | Richard Lionheart Project |       | 0m     |
| 4   | Kamyoncu                  | F7b+  | 0m     |
| 5   | Hollybeef                 | F6c   | 0m     |
| 6   | Hermafrodit               | F6c   | 0m     |
| 7   | Zwanderful Tonight        | F6b+  | 0m     |
| 8   | Karpaz Esekleri           | F7a+  | 0m     |
| 9   | Karpaz Esekleri Direct    | F7b   | 0m     |
| 10  | Drama Queen               | F6b+  | 0m     |
| 11  | Golyandro                 | F5c   | 0m     |
| 12  | Marshmellow               | F5c   | 0m     |
| 13  | Hellim                    | F5c   | 0m     |
| 14  | Hellim Extension          | F7b   | 0m     |
| 15  | Gufi                      | F6a+  | 0m     |
| 16  | Mastika                   | F6b   | 0m     |
| 17  | Babavura                  | F6c   | 0m     |
| 18  | Ela                       | F8b   | 0m     |
| 19  | Anorit                    | F6a   | 0m     |
| 20  | Rapunzel                  | F6a+  | 0m     |
| 21  | Riviera                   | F6b+  | 0m     |
| 22  | Molehiya                  | F6a   | 0m     |
| 23  | Gabbar                    | F7a   | 0m     |
| 24  | Highway to Heaven         | F6a   | 0m     |
| 25  | Kupdusen                  | F5c   | 0m     |
| 26  | Limasollu Naci            | F6a   | 0m     |
| 27  | Baragadi                  | F7a+  | 0m     |
| 28  | Monobadi                  | F7a   | 0m     |
| 29  | Bafidi                    | F6c+  | 0m     |
| 30  | Kedira                    | F6c   | 0m     |
| 31  | Ferma                     | F7a+  | 0m     |
| 32  | Mardo                     | F6b   | 0m     |
| 33  | Marmot                    | F5c   | 0m     |
| 34  | Rolling Stones            | F6b   | 0m     |
| 35  | Garavolli                 | F6c+  | 0m     |
| 36  | Casablanca                | F6b   | 0m     |
| 37  | Solina                    | F7a+  | 0m     |
| 38  | Orfoz                     | F7c   | 0m     |
| 39  | Zurnaci                   | F6c+  | 0m     |
| 40  | Gindirik                  | F6b   | 0m     |
| 41  | Horoz                     | F6a+  | 0m     |
| 42  | Gurkuda                   | F5c   | 0m     |

# Big Cave

| #   | Route Name    | Grade | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | Length |
| --- | ------------- | ----- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| 1   | Golyandro     | 5C    | On the left hand-side of the cave. First bolt 10m up: access the cave above by pulling on the fixed rope, using the ladder or even soloing. Uneventful climb, but why not climb. Any extension in the 9th grade, for the takers. | 0m     |
| 2   | Pteropous     | 8B    | 10 meters of slab climbing, then continues to the tufas all the way to the top of the cave. Top out giving some extra bonus!!                                                                                                    | 0m     |
| 3   | Mosquito bite | 8B    | Deep inside the cave. A beauty. 7b+ to the hole, then the fun begins with great sequences of moves until the slightly easier but roofy roof.                                                                                     | 0m     |
| 4   | Drag queen    | 6B+   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 0m     |
