content/en/areas/climbing-areas.md, before:

---
author: Rustam Safin
title: Cyprus Climbing Areas
date: 2023-04-09
description:
keywords: ["area"]
---

![Map](/map.png)

# [Dhiarizos]({{<ref "/areas/dhiarizos/overview" >}})

![Dhiarizos](/dhiarizos/overview.jpg)

Superb limestone sector containing over 50 well bolted sports routes in range 4 to 7c+.

# [Episkopi/Paphos]({{<ref "/areas/episkopi-paphos/overview" >}})

![Episkopi Paphos image](/episkopi-paphos/overview.jpg)

Those limestone walls offer some versatile routes from vertical to slightly overhanging crimpy routes to steep athletic overhangs. With currently 30 routes ranging from 6a up to 8b/8c and a lot of space for potential new masterpieces, Episkopi definitely worth a visit from mid-grade to high-end sport climbers and developers.

# [Droushia/Ineia]({{<ref "/areas/droushia/overview" >}})

![Droushia](/droushia/gerakopetra.jpg)

Most extensive and varied climbing on the island. Eight developed crags, sports and trad, close to Polis and within 30 minutes of Paphos.

# [Xeros Valley / Galataria]({{<ref "xeros/overview" >}})

![Galataria](/xeros/galataria.jpg)

Great sector in a peaceful and remote location above the Xeros river valley.

# [Cavo Greko]({{<ref "cavo-greko/overview" >}})

![Cavo greko](/cavo-greko/main.jpg)

Outstanding traditional climbing location in atmospheric coastal setting. Around 180 recorded traditional routes, M to E6.

# [Pyla]({{<ref "pyla/overview" >}})

Sea cliff with around 18 trad routes, VD to E6.

# [Pendadhaktylos]({{<ref "pendadhaktylos/overview" >}})

Oustanding sport and trad cliffs just beyond Nicosia, in the north. Many sectors in various different aspects. Continues to be developed by a small band of enthusiasts.

# [Agios Irakleidhios]({{<ref "agios-irakleidhios/overview" >}})

This sector has access issues - climbing is only allowed on the first Saturday and Sunday of each month.

# [Germasogeia]({{<ref "germasogeia/overview" >}})

Undeveloped grit-like cliffs overlooking Germasogeia reservoir, near Limassol.

# [Happy Valley]({{<ref "/areas/happy-valley/overview" >}})

Decent little trad climbing area near Limassol. Over 20 routes, in low to mid grades.

# [Troodos]({{<ref "troodos/overview">}})

Two sectors on sligthly cliffy rock in pretty surroundings.

# [Episkopi/Limassol]({{<ref "episkopi-limassol/overview" >}})

New sector about 10km west of Limassol.

Commit message:

Add some crags from Northern Cyprus.

content/en/areas/climbing-areas.md, after:

---
author: Rustam Safin
title: Cyprus Climbing Areas
date: 2023-04-09
description:
keywords: ["area"]
---

![Map](/map.png)

# [Dhiarizos]({{<ref "/areas/dhiarizos/overview" >}})

![Dhiarizos](/dhiarizos/overview.jpg)

Superb limestone sector containing over 50 well bolted sports routes in range 4 to 7c+.

# [Episkopi/Paphos]({{<ref "/areas/episkopi-paphos/overview" >}})

![Episkopi Paphos image](/episkopi-paphos/overview.jpg)

Those limestone walls offer some versatile routes from vertical to slightly overhanging crimpy routes to steep athletic overhangs. With currently 30 routes ranging from 6a up to 8b/8c and a lot of space for potential new masterpieces, Episkopi definitely worth a visit from mid-grade to high-end sport climbers and developers.

# [Droushia/Ineia]({{<ref "/areas/droushia/overview" >}})

![Droushia](/droushia/gerakopetra.jpg)

Most extensive and varied climbing on the island. Eight developed crags, sports and trad, close to Polis and within 30 minutes of Paphos.

# [Xeros Valley / Galataria]({{<ref "xeros/overview" >}})

![Galataria](/xeros/galataria.jpg)

Great sector in a peaceful and remote location above the Xeros river valley.

# [Cavo Greko]({{<ref "cavo-greko/overview" >}})

![Cavo greko](/cavo-greko/main.jpg)

Outstanding traditional climbing location in atmospheric coastal setting. Around 180 recorded traditional routes, M to E6.

# [Pendadhaktylos]({{<ref "pendadhaktylos/overview" >}})

![Area](/pendadhaktylos/area.jpg)

Oustanding sport and trad cliffs just beyond Nicosia, in the north. Many sectors in various different aspects. Continues to be developed by a small band of enthusiasts.

# [Garga suyu]({{<ref "pendadhaktylos/garga-suyu">}})

![Garga Suyu](/garga-suyu/overview.jpg)

Perhaps the best, and most varied, sport climbing on the island. Only a 3-minute approach from the parking. All-year climbing, even if winter can be very chilly. Forget it on high humidity and windless summer days.

# [Pyla]({{<ref "pyla/overview" >}})

![Pyla](/pyla/overview.png)

Sea cliff with around 18 trad routes, VD to E6.

# [Buffa Wall]({{<ref "buffa-wall/buffa-wall">}})

![Buffa wall](/buffa-wall/main.jpg)

Limestone crag located in the Northern Cyprus.

# [Yudi]({{<ref "yudi/yudi">}})

![Yudi](/yudi/overview.jpg)

This is one of the most picturesque climbing areas of Northern Cyprus. There are two main crags overlooking the nearby sea, the taller Upper Crag about 120m high and lying more toward the west, and the longer Lower Crag, about 60-70m high. The Upper Crag has several large bush-filled ledges and both contain very large caves. There are also several arches, one of which is around 25m high and hosts a trad route on the eastern leg.

# [Agios Irakleidhios]({{<ref "agios-irakleidhios/overview" >}})

This sector has access issues - climbing is only allowed on the first Saturday and Sunday of each month.

# [Germasogeia]({{<ref "germasogeia/overview" >}})

Undeveloped grit-like cliffs overlooking Germasogeia reservoir, near Limassol.

# [Happy Valley]({{<ref "/areas/happy-valley/overview" >}})

Decent little trad climbing area near Limassol. Over 20 routes, in low to mid grades.

# [Troodos]({{<ref "troodos/overview">}})

Two sectors on sligthly cliffy rock in pretty surroundings.

# [Episkopi/Limassol]({{<ref "episkopi-limassol/overview" >}})

New sector about 10km west of Limassol.
